Hello and welcome to Artificial Intelligence for Production Code incorporating AI into unity.
Game development can streamline development and testing.
Some of the benefits are listed here.
And what we're going to be talking about in this particular video is code generation.
Being able to analyze and suggest design for new systems optimizations make your code more efficient,
better performance, and save development time.
There's many tools you can use for this step.
The two that I'm going to be showing are ChatGPT and GitHub Copilot.
I generally use ChatGPT to ask larger questions, give me more bulk of code samples and response, whereas
I use GitHub copilot when I need one line, one method, something smaller within the context of a given
page of code.
I'm continuing to evolve my own practice.
I'll show a little bit about how they both work, and you can decide for yourself what workflow makes
sense for you.
One of the tools that we can use is OpenAI.
As I mentioned, and you can click the try ChatGPT button on the website here and we'll open up the
chat.
GPT I am a paying user, and that is a monthly subscription fee to get ChatGPT plus, some of the features
you might see are not used in the free version, but you can certainly follow along using the free version
and check it out.
The other tool I'll show is GitHub Copilot.
This is typically enabled inside your code editor.
I use writer, but you can use Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code or other tools, and it knows about
the page of code you're sitting in and can give you better contextual answers.
I'd suggest doing a trial of one or both of these softwares to see if you like the flow.
I think over time these tools will be maturing, maturing rapidly, and also the price will come down
or a free tier will be introduced for most of these products.
Eventually.
When I open ChatGPT up in the browser, I get this experience here and I can begin starting the conversation
with an AI.
If I want to have a completely separate conversation, I open up a different chat.
ChatGPT only knows about the conversation you're having in a given chat.
So if here I introduce a few concepts and then I open up a separate chat, it won't know any of the
concepts I've talked about.
So generally I'll leave a chat open for each of the major areas.
What we want to do is start with a prompt that says something like this.
I'll say, act like a unity game development expert and tell me this or that.
So I've decided to say create a class called Product Manager that allows for add product, remove product
and get products.
Use a list or dictionary to manage the list of products.
This list will start empty, so you can give it just that bit of info and it knows it's going to be
a unity game development expert.
It will infer that it needs to give you C-sharp information.
So let's go ahead and see the result.
We've gotten two full response.
Let's take a look at what we got here.
GPT says certainly in unity you would typically use C-sharp to create such a class.
Great.
It's on the right path.
Here's an example of how you might implement a product manager using a list to manage the products.
This assumes that you have a product class defined elsewhere.
It added that I didn't necessarily want or need that, but I love the suggestion.
So first it defines what a product is so it knows about the word product and general software application
uses of a product.
It might have a name or an ID, and as it hints at other properties there, then it has the constructor
set up and we could even add more things to it.
Now I can copy and paste this into unity and we can get started.
Next let's see what other code it gives us.
Here's the product manager which will have a list of the products.
It knows the difference between private and public, and how we probably want to manage that.
And generally at this point of using this ChatGPT for code about a year into the technology, I assume
generally the code is going to compile right off the bat.
Occasionally there'll be an issue with that.
Particularly it might get something correct in the C-sharp, but not know about unity or something like
that.
But if you know what you're looking for and you always paste it into unity and give it a try, you'll
pretty quickly get a feel for it's about 9,599% right.
Here we have the add product, remove product, etcetera.
Let's take a look at our unity setup and then we'll paste this in.
So here we are inside unity I've already got a nice folder set up where I can do my work.
So inside the workshops I've got an I folder here.
And inside I've got some pretty empty classes already.
For our AI example, the AI example script is here.
Let's take a look at the source code for that.
Here's the AI example.
And as the comment says, it's ready for a product manager to be thrown in here.
But it's got a pretty empty setup.
Then I've got the test runner here showing the category of AI, and we've got some different AI tests
here.
Just set up an empty.
If we took a look at the source code for the AI test, it is pretty empty.
Looks like that.
And if we look at the I play mode test, it's pretty empty as well.
And finally, we have a product manager class here which is ready for the code coming in.
Now I'm giving a somewhat contrived example here where I already know I want a product manager, but
I don't have much else that it depends on or needs to talk to.
So it's going to be easy for us to integrate.
You could imagine here you've got an existing game with hundreds of existing classes, and you want
to add one new system.
It's not going to know all about your existing project, so you're going to have to explain that to
it.
So it's admittedly a simpler example here starting from zero.
But one thing I want to mention is I've got something like the namespace here.
And probably as I interact with ChatGPT, I'm going to paste from ChatGPT into unity.
Use it a little bit.
I might tweak the code here, and then I'll want to copy and paste back to ChatGPT again.
ChatGPT doesn't know about my code here, so I always have to keep that chat going on in this separate
conversation.
So one of the things I've learned is that I don't want to have to manually paste certain sections from
ChatGPT into my code and certain sections back.
So just for an example, I have this namespace already declared.
And here.
So I'm going to come back into ChatGPT and notice that it doesn't have any namespaces.
So I'm going to say great job.
Please integrate this code into your sample.
And I'm just going to paste that there.
So let's see what it did here.
It said certainly to integrate the product manager class in the provided namespace and structure.
So I can see that it's added this and it's added this.
It's just a little hack that I realize is useful, so that I don't have to manually re add that every
time I ask a question.
I think over the course of this exercise you'll see why.
So I'm going to copy the code completely and paste it into unity.
There we go.
It's pasted in and I don't see any errors coming from compilation.
Let's check in.
Unity.
Unity has recompiled.
Everything looks good.
Now, before we do any testing, let's check out the I example here and have it run a simple example
of some of the functionality.
So I'm going to copy this entire script and I'm going to say okay don't repeat that code.
Create me a new page of code for a new class.
Use this as inspiration.
Update the awake.
With a simple demo of Product Manager.
Let's see the response here.
Certainly to create a new class that demonstrates the use of Product Manager in the awake.
Here is the example.
Let's take a look at the source code.
We can see that it's kept the class name, the comment, the namespace that I like.
It's kept this part here that I wanted to use.
I put this attribute here just so that it doesn't get confused in the testing.
And then I run the awake here.
Looks good.
Now let's just copy that into our unity project and see how it works.
Okay, I've pasted it in.
I don't see any errors here.
Let's check in.
Unity.
Recompiled.
Looks like everything works well.
Here's the example already in the scene.
Let's go ahead and run.
My console shows product ID one, two and three.
Let's take a look at the source code.
So let's review what we're doing here.
We've got a product manager that gets instantiated.
We add three products.
We call the get products.
And then we spit them out.
Now this is a simple example that's doing something in a pretty empty project.
So we agree that it's probably easier to integrate than something much later in a larger, more complex
product.
But look how amazing this is.
It was able to give me the product manager and a demo example on top of it.
That's it for this demonstration of showing how artificial intelligence, particularly ChatGPT, can
give us the ability to add new production code in a future video, we'll take a look at how AI can help
us create unit tests on top of this production code.
Thanks.